Published on
7/20/08, 5:36 PM

It was a stopover that day in my wonted walk to the tea stall every evening, to the room of a senior. He is known to be quite adroit in technical spheres (computers and all that) and on a whim asked me something core to the computer workings (system files, file attributes, &amp;^%&amp; and %$#^#$?). I tried to answer those but I had only my common sense with me to help me out which called my mind to promise him to explain the things to his liking soon but some other day. I didn't toil in the library for hours or asked a faculty member for an appointment to have my doubts cleared. All I needed to think was a 'closest to the perfect' "keys" to put inside the double quotes and type into the text box of one of the best search engines on hand. It has been so common in our daily routine saying "I googled that.” or "Why don’t you google this?” You might know that the term 'google' has already made an entry to most of the world's standard dictionaries for 'searching for web pages on the internet using a search engine'.

Frankly speaking, it was the subject for debate as our hostels' once-a-year contests. It was something like the internet is spoiling the ability of people to innovate. Well I was not one among the talkers but I was, as were my friends, in no way anti-internet. On the contrary, the winner had other stories to tell and we could do nothing but pass on some acerbic judgments among us regarding the judgment of the fellow as the winner. But unaffectedly pondering over the question I was forced to think a little bit the other way.

It’s evident that everything which can be googled is easy and almost entirely unproblematic. Testing posers are simple, a few clicks of mouse and hits of keys away. It's been and will be a great plus - the internet - the gains are inestimable. But with all this, it also provides off-the-rack info, facts and figures that were once procured from books, libraries, magazines and proficient people providing in the process the invaluable know-how that is tough to acquire in this way around. That the internet is making the things a bit simpler than perhaps it is needed, mainly for the school going students, is quite apparent when you have a look at some of the projects and presentations made by them which are mere copy pasted from the web. There are hundreds of sites on the web that allow downloading readymade stuffs that were once dug out from stacks of books and rounds of thoughts (though that took just a little longer). I, saying all this also turn up to the internet when I need things without dragging myself much (why wouldn't I, if it is so much, so easy and so fast). 

A few days ago, going through biography of John Nash- the beautiful mind, you remember? - one of the best among the mathematicians of 2nd half of the last century - came to know an amazing point that Nash made during his college days to his fellow. Nash was quite against studying works of other authors and scholars as, in his words, those readymade materials tended to reduce his novelty, ideas and innovation. Well, it is not really practical for all of us to be like Nash and give out our very own theories for each and every thing, but what we need, is to discourage as far as practically possible this new dependency of ours on two of the most commonly used keyboard shortcuts ctrl-c and ctrl-v. Though this copy-pasting practice takes nothing, it doesn't, I believe, give much to exploit later.
Don't we find it tastier- the home made parathas than the readymade pizza of the nearby restaurant? I am sure I do. What about you?