Published on
3/23/08, 12:10 PM

So, it's been quite a while India won the first T20 championship, crushing every one who came their way to a memorable victory in South Africa. Beating on the way the giants like Australia, England, South Africa and Pakistan, that too without the 'Big Three'. Also achieving personal milestones (Yuvraj banging six out of the park on the trot, Dhoni proving to be the right choice as the skipper). Commendable.

So, it's been quite a while Anand was once again crowned the world champion, making the country proud again. A gem he has been for so many years, winning tournaments after one then another and then another. Salutes to the great champion!

So, it's been quite a while that India crushed S Korea by a record margin to win the Asia Cup hockey at Chennai. What a comeback that was of a team that saw umpteen failures during that course of time. Only to forget was the complaint by the players not of getting equal praise and attention (and money?) as the cricket team got after winning the T20 c'ship. Well, both team's players were felicitated 'together' by the President.

So, it's been quite a while the 'triumphant' India has returned from down under beating the best and clinching the series after…oops, I don’t recall how many years. Not again want to complain, the team showed tremendous character to bounce back and let their willow and swing do the talking, despite being accused of 'abuses' and that it was the might of BCCI that got Harbhajan clear at the end. Following the trail of many of its kind, today also, I saw a photo of the team's felicitation. Hats off to the Men in Blue! (they lost the test series;) )

So, it's been quite a while the young brigade of Indian cricket swept with the title of world champions. India again winning the world under 19 cricket championship in Malaysia. Well done the colts!

So, it's been India lost to England (0-2) not to qualify for the first time for the Olympics, Beijing this year. In the games' history of 80 years, the first time will be this, that the Indian hockey players would be warming their loungers watching the teams battle it out for the medals on TV. Words won't describe the humiliation.

But it's not been a while that Anju George, the bronze medalist at the world championship in long jump, commented on Milkha Singh and PT Usha as not being 'world class in their fields'. Is she right? Apart from cricket, hockey (that of 20 years' back) and a few individuals we haven't had sporting heroes. The two people mentioned were good, but only at the Asian level. Yes, the facilities and environs haven't been that helpful, but that shouldn’t be an excuse to make. Do we lack 'Indian' idols when it comes to sports other than cricket? Perhaps yes. The state of sports (don't include cricket in 'sports' for the next few lines) here is heartbreaking. With politicians and 'dictators' ruling the sports governing bodies, the problems become worse showing no rays of hope. The overall faulty system needs to be overhauled. Money and recourses don’t reach the states' boards from the central and to the districts from the states and to the talents in small towns and villages from the district associations. Schools and colleges don’t encourage these sporting activities to the needed extent. Sponsors don’t show up (why would they, if nobody watches those dull 'glamour' less events). Kids only find Sachin and Yuvraj on TVs and magazines, and ultimately they are also left with a narrow road that leads only to a cricket field of their locality (and these news small town heroes have only spiced things up).

These sports need big boards with honest and visionary officials, with brimming money in their bucket. A few days ago there was a public pole that asked should the game of hockey be handed over to the BCCI after the shameful exit form the Olympics. My view was- no, but make the hockey fed free from dirty politics and adamant officials. And for the rest of the sports (the athletics, football and many more), perhaps take help from a genie but don’t look at the authorities to revive the story and situation of today.



P.S.: Don't get the wrong end of the stick to think I am crazy, but I dreamt last night, only to see India wining 150 medals at Beijing!