Published on
1/1/10, 1:48 PM

Alone in my room I wait for the clock to inch closer to the midnight mark. Closer to the New Year, again, we catch a new one in our lives. This time it’s 2010 (nice year at least to call it – twenty ten – gone are days of long names – the thousand ones). I pray the digital timer of the task bar of my monitor to run faster. I don’t know why I wanted that so badly, perhaps people love turning points everywhere around them, though this turning point doesn’t turn in any direction but forward. I come out of my room, in the background and foreground were people screaming and shouting. Ecstasy had its way in their rooms and hearts, I guessed. It was still 10 minutes to the most defining moment of 2010 (perhaps it had come for those who have their watches ahead of time). Yes, the most defining moment of anything is its start, isn’t it – the philosopher me said and it said that only to me, that’s how no one is there to listen to a philosopher in his lifetime ;-). Or the philosopher you takes over only when you are with no one, perhaps.

I take my usual stairs to the 2nd floor and on the way am greeted by some lesser known juniors (lesser-knowns to me only, they might be rocking their friend circle, that’s different). I return them their hugs back; no way would you want your new year to start with disparity of any sort ;-) I reach my destination – kinda usual – the 2nd floor where I’d expected the usual 2nd floor family standing in the passage corridor. Amit and Sadique (waiting for Anshu to come out of the bathroom as thought me) wished me happy New Year; again I returned them the hugs. And joined by people by the time, we had a trip of the hostel sharing countless wishes and greetings with each other. We danced and jumped for a few minutes and came back from the improvised dance floor between the A and C blocks.

2 hours have passed of the new decade and it has been nothing much rocking after coming back to my room from outside– at least (and for sure) for me. I get the usual calls - calls from people to whom I can’t really go to and wish New Year greetings at this hour of the night (man, I really wish I could). Won’t go deeper into that now. Anyways, guys have their way to party and the party’s going full on right now, I guess in Sachin’s room. My inner self doesn’t want to comment on any one right now (God what has come over me? Save this blog from getting dead). And even if I had wanted, it’d be again some ‘manage things well’ stuff of one guy or the other. You can guess the rest if you are smart or by any chance you have peeped through the previous post. Really don’t wanna say more. Thinking of the New Year resolution again - why in the world I decided that (will tell you much about mine and others’ later, if you are interested at all). Only thing that is keeping me happy is that resolutions are the only decisions that are not to be followed for more than one week, at least my past record approves this fact.

Happens to be the birthdays of Sahil, and a (somewhat better known junior, to me again) Rajat, to your credit go added greetings!

Happy New Year! Cheers! Have a year to go before a new one comes!