Published on
12/28/09, 12:52 AM

So, my second attempted stint as a blogger has started to cause a few stir and awe of getting kinda unmasked among a few people around. Actually, it wouldn’t be really perfect to call it unmasking, after all, we here are not talking about sting operations of Tehelka, neither we have scams of that magnitude. Oops, I am again wrong in calling these scams, my apologies. To say it clearly, there are no scams at all. ‘To My Friends’ is just going to be a tell-all from my side, at least as far as my eyes can scout.

It started from my room again, as Amey and Upen got the privilege to be the first ones (actually first and second ones ;-) to have a look at the Comeback post (scroll down to the previous post). I can’t tell you here (though it’s a tell-all), their faces beaming with joy of getting published (perhaps for the 1st time ;-) anywhere on the web, written in some nice font at some high traffic weblog (I am going way too fast, I guess, so stopping here). Though those lines couldn’t bring out to you people the best of them, but that was enough for me to get calls that could force me to see a doctor sooner or later. But I was determined - as solid as Dravid (always been a great fan of him especially when it comes to handling Bouncers) and continued my stand of bringing out the true me and my friends. (And c’mon you two, you are not the only ones who will face the sweet chin music here, there is lot to come). The next moment I was flooded with old tales that are to be told featuring one, two, three or all of us. You will have a taste of them soon.

The bet between me and Amey, the fight in the bus on the ‘3 Idiots’ day, Upen going to see the doc (the last time), Sachin and Co. planning the big New Year’s Eve bash, the count continues after the next few lines, in the mean time, something very special struck my mind that can’t be skipped, would be unfair to you.

You know Sachin has just joined the new crop of ‘guys who arrange things’, the latest example being leading the bunch of 15+ in the first day-first show of ‘3 Idiots’, he was right there in front of the line at the ticket counter, I was told. As I was not with them that day (I kinda regretted my decision of not joining them that morning, now are you guys happy?) And boy what rewards he got! Worth NOT mentioning, well, to tell 9+ minutes will suffice most of you.

You might be wondering by now (if you are a keen reader) that I talked about the new crop, then which is the old and existing one? Well, you are dead right, standing tall and untouched are Anand and Pillu (Nishant Pilania, but we, including him have forgot this ‘brand name’ of his) when it comes to arranging things most efficiently, smoothly, merrily, and what not. And that without a drop of sweat coming out of their foreheads, at least it seems so. You know, sometimes I wonder Anand must have invented some kinda device that sweeps all the fluid off their skins when handling such high pressure of keeping everyone around happy. Well, hoping Nishant will continue this knack of managing stuffs to the next college he goes and break all records of being a rebel in the field. When we talk about these two greats, leaving off the third will be like talking of Sir Don today and not mentioning Sachin Tendulkar. Yes, he is our own star Sadique. God, this man has something within. What balance in life, when it comes to work. A real star in ALL WALKS of life. Be it college, studies, canteen or households ;-) Well, to tell three of you, Sachin is not far behind you guys,

And as I write this thinking of packing up, Anirvan enters finding others (almost as ususal) and then walking back giving me some nice tips for watching BIRDS, again as usual. And seeing him reminds me of another great. Yes, none other than, again our very own, Dheeraj, who’s perhaps studying in Anshu’s room, he really thinks me of a fool when he says that he is going to Anshu’s room to study. Well, can’t talk much about him now, he is no less than a US museum show piece stuff - words of Anirvan – can write an epic on him ;-)

See you folks!