Published on
7/20/08, 5:38 PM

We returned to our rooms after the long but not so boring pre-placement training classes at around 8:30 in the evening. It had started at 1:30 in the afternoon and I was pretty excited about it. I said it was not that tiresome we had imagined and heard of. I changed and tried to start again the prologue of the book that I had issued for the PPT classes for the time when I'd feel bored and was away from the look of the teacher. It was 'The remains of the day' by Kazuo Ishiguro. Well, I could just start the prologue in the last of the classes that was of reasoning. This proves the classes were not mind-numbing at all. It was 9:15 by then and I decided to go to the dinner and found my friends already there. Their table had no place for another plate and I took a seat on the table just behind theirs.

Mine was the only plate on the table so the kid who uses to serve portions moving here and there, put the two of his buckets (of almost half the size of his own body) on my table. He is such a little kid and has got a lovely face. It was quite early at the dinner so there were not much of people eating, I was alone on my table and he just hovered around me (I don’t know why). I looked at him and smiled. He smiled back.

'Where is your home, kid?’ I asked.
He signaled using his hands pointing backwards with a beaming face.
'Where? The kitchen?'
At this he giggled and said no.
After 3-4 efforts he succeeded in getting me utter the word 'Manikpur'. There he lived.
'How do you go there? On a bus?'
'It's is just one meter away from here.’ the boy said.
I corrected him, 'One kilometer, right? So you go on foot.'
He didn’t say anything.
'You have brothers?'
'Yes, three'. He put out three fingers of his right hand. 'They work in Hydrebad'. He couldn’t pronounce Hyderabad rightly.
'They are your elders?'
'Yeah.' He used his hands to indicate their heights one by one. One was just above his head and the other a bit more.
Somebody called him then for something and he turned away. The next table was empty now. He came back at me and stood in front of me without saying anything. He just looked at me as if he wanted me to talk more. There was a thin lining of sweat droplets on above his upper lips. He didn’t wipe those; I don’t know why.
'Who else is back at your home then?'
He told me that his mother is there. He had two sisters (again showing two of his right fingers), both married and so they didn’t live there with his mother.
'Your father?'
'He used to drink.' He took his right thumb and pointed it towards his mouth to show that his father drank. 'He'd beat my mother. So we beat him and now he doesn’t stay with us at our home.' He seemed to look triumphant at saving his mother and the family.
'We had a cow but it died.’ the boy said. 'I used to sell milk for 10 rupees.'
I smiled, even after hearing the news of his dead cow. He then told about some one thousand and then of some five thousand rupees. I didn’t get him. I ignored.
I signaled him to give me some rice. He did.
‘How much do you eat?’ I asked.
‘At the night.’
‘No, no. How much do you eat?’ I emphasized on ‘How’.
This time he got it. ‘Five rotis.’ He meant five chapattis. ‘I tell my mother also to eat rotis.’
‘I eat only four.’ I tried to please him.
He smiled.
Someone called him again. He returned, sat on the chair in front of me and smiled; the droplets still there.
'You go to school?’ I asked.
'No.'
'At your home?'
'I read till seventh.'
I wondered. I appreciated him and told something pleasing to him. He felt proud and his face glowed more.
'So you know ABCD….'
'No, I know my language only. I write very fast.'
I appreciated him again.
‘You will go to school again?’
‘No, I won’t.’
‘Why? One should go to the school.’
'But I failed in seventh.'
'This time you won't fail.'
‘No, I will.’
He laughed, for the first time.
Someone called him again.
I couldn’t feel the presence of anybody else in the room when I talked to him.
I had finished by then. I left the table and couldn’t say him bye.
He might have come again at my table to talk. But I was not there, perhaps he'd felt sorry, I don’t know.

I came out of the food court and told myself thinking of the boy and thought – ‘You won't fail again'.